Propose Architecture and Probe <-> Server API (#11)
tonarino/acoustic_profiler: README.md

Let your software roar!

## Assumptions and Requirements
Let's start with an analogy: the profiled program is like a mechanical gearbox with many cogs that each can make a sound. The sound a cog makes depends on 1) how fast it spins 2) how much power it transmits 3) the shape/material/kind of the cog.

Acoustic profiler makes it fairly easy to
1. implement probes for various types of cogs
2. vary sound effects given to individual cogs

> 3. hear cogs spinning in remote machine (host)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. hear cogs spinning on a remote machine (host)
```
(though not 100% sure)

Author: hehe, I think it's "in a machine" and "on a host" so I chosen "in" as "host" is in parenthesis.

I'll resolve this.

This necessitates an interface somewhere between the probes and the sound synthesis so that they can be mix-and-matched. This interface also works over network to satisfy 3.

## Interface

On abstract level, the interface is just a stream of Events where event is

```rust
struct Event {
    type: EventType
    // only values between [0, 1]
    quality: f32

> }

Reviewer: This commend depends on the discussion about the `EventType`, but:

Having a "free-form" `quality` field here whose interpretation depends on `EventType` (presumably) feels somewhat unRusty (C-ish): if each event knows what particular qualities it can have, then these may be more expressive as fields on the individual types:
```
enum Event {
    ActorMessageSent { message_type: FooBar },
    FilesystemWriteOrRead { bytes: usize },
    ...
}
```
Here I've also merged `Event` with `EventType`.

Or we can go concrete and call this `volume` or `intensity`.

Reviewer 2: I also slightly lean towards what Matej suggests. `quality` sounds nice and abstract, but I think we benefit from explicitness during the early iterations. As the project matures, we'll probably know better what level of abstraction we eventually want.

Reviewer 3: Agreed on both counts :)

Alternatively, if there's an unbounded/unknown amount of possible event kinds, rather than an `enum` the right solution may be using dynamic dispatch and storing a boxed trait instead. This would increase complexity though, so it has to be warranted.

Author: > if each event knows what particular qualities it can have, then these may be more expressive as fields on the individual types:

Yeah, this looks better for the API layer. The layer that maps any event variant to any sound effect can then be internal to the server. We may actually find out that this layer can't be reasonably generic and we'll have have to implement an adapter for every `(event, effect)` pair individually.

I'll leave the readme as it is and merge this and I'll make sure to update it once we have actual code in place.

> enum EventType {
>     ActorMessageSent,
>     FilesystemWriteOrRead
>     ...
> }

Reviewer: This would essentially make the sound synthesis server know about all possible probe types. Meaning a 3rd party would not be able to implement a new probe without also modifying the sound synthesis server (or trying to fit into existing concrete event types).

If we want to make probes and sound synthesis fully independent, I fear this would have to be abstract types like
```suggestion
enum EventType {
    Flow,
    Operation,
    Breakage,
    ...
}
```

That may be too abstract though.

Another alternative would be to _reverse_ the information flow: make probes know about possible sounds:
```suggestion
enum Sound {
    DiskSeek,
    BrokenGlass,
    Violin { .. },
    Bagpipes { .. },
}
```
That may be advantageous if we wanted to give the power to the probes, or if we wanted 3rd party probes to be possible without extending the server.

Reviewer 2: A middle ground we dicussed at the lunch table was to go with more explicit event types e.g. `FilesystemWriteOrRead` as in the orignal proposal, but to extend it with more abstract event types e.g. `Syscall` and `Operation`, to account for possibility of 3rd-party probes.

Author: I think that right now we're bit ahead with imagining (and implementing) the probes so we may start with what @skywhale proposes. (And I already kinda did that with the `TestTick` in #12)

Will resolve this so we can move forward.

```

> The frequency of events encodes how fast a cog spins and the quality encodes the power transmitted through it. (We can add more dimensions later.) We also assume that

Author: Instead of relying on the event frequency to be transmitted over the wire we may instead make the probes to send messages *regularly* (Eg. every 0.1s) and encode the actual event frequency as an *attribute* of the regularly sent message.

I.e. a message then would be something like
```rust
Message {
    event_type: EventType,
    // number of occurences of the events in the last 0.1 s
    occurences: u32,
    // the sum of qualities
    quality: f32,
}
```

This could
1) save bandwith
2) curcumvent timing/ordering/buffering issues in the network layer

OTOH we'd also loose some resolution that could be used for sound synthesis.

Reviewer: > Instead of relying on the event frequency to be transmitted over the wire we may instead make the probes to send messages regularly (Eg. every 0.1s) and encode the actual event frequency as an attribute of the regularly sent message.

Another alternative would be to let probes (aggregators) encode the `frequency` itself (synthesis server would assume it stays the same until update?). That has an advantage over some assumed fixed interval that probes could send update as fast or as slow as the value actually changes.

The disadvantage is that we could keep playing for probes that die.

Also, is the interface (Rust type) the same before aggregation and after it? I.e. do we have some `Event` and `AggregatedEvent`, or does `Event` by itself (at least some types) need to support aggregation internally? I can imagine both variants.

Reviewer 2: I like starting with the simplest (as in the original proposal) and evolve over time. We can revisit the idea of `occurrences` and `frequency` later.

A thought for later: I think I'm starting to prefer making probes as dumb as possible and let the server handle most of the complexities. 
* The server knows more about kinds of sound sources it can play and other events from concurrent probes, which may influence how to interpret a particular series of events. Disk reads could be thought of as a changing frequency value, or a series of discrete events.
* We can record incoming probe events and play back on the server side to quickly iterate on aggregation and synthesis.
* We probably want to encode timestamp in the event struct as well, so we are not influenced by the network conditions. It allows us to send `Vec<Event>` to reduce serialization and network overhead.

- any cog may not turn at all (no incoming events) - then it shouldn't make any sound.
- no cog can turn faster than a human can hear (~20 000 events per second).

Every probe should fit into these limits and every sound-effect should account for the entire range.

## Implementation

> Each probe be individual binary that connects and streams the events to a server over UDP serialized as bincode. The address of the server is passed to the probe with command-line arguments. The probe should aggregate the events to ensure it fits into the above range. Probes are free to send multiple type of events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each probe is an individual binary that connects and streams the events to a server over UDP serialized as bincode. The address of the server is passed to the probe with command-line arguments. The probe should aggregate the events to ensure it fits into the above range. Probes are free to send multiple types of events.
```

> The server is a binary that accepts events and assigns a sound effect to every event type it receives. This mapping is set statically in code. Later we can let it be configured with command line options or config file.

Author: We'll need some way to handle the events and effects concurrently on the server. I'm not sure, async or just threads?

Reviewer: Mmm, maybe we can leave this up to implementation and a natural way to interface the chosen audio/effect library. It will likely work with buffers of 10ms or audio (480 samples at 48 hKz sampling rate) or so.

On receiving side, accepting UDP packets should be straightforward as there is no state beyond listening on the socket - there can be an equivalent of `read_next_packet_on_socket_dont_block() -> Option<Message>`.

So I can imagine starting the server as sync, single-threaded process and then see how we need to evolve it.
